We were talking about options API and
the bridge over the composition API.
And then, we went ahead and basically
showed you what it was like to only use
composition API, where we've moved
everything into the setup function.
But I did promise you that all that
boilerplate, we were writing while there
is a, the grass is greener on the other
side, and it truly is, because something
that came out recently with Vue 3.2 and
above is the concept of script setup.
And so before we dive into code,
I'm gonna do some slides just to give
you just like a basic overview, so
that helps you, hopefully explain
things a little bit better.
So here we have a view component.
As you can see here, we have our script.
And then, as we can see here,
we're using the options API to actually
set everything up with composition API.
So there's your setup lifecycle hook.
We can see that this is a standard
counter app with a count of ref(0).
We have a computed property, for example,
we have a method to increment the count.
And we've returned
everything in the object,
fairly standard from
the composition API perspective.
Well, one of the things we realized,
though, is that this is still a lot of
boilerplate, considering that a lot of
people are opting into competition API for
certain components in a pure fashion.
So how might we make this better?
Well, first thing first.
We went ahead, and we're going to say
we're gonna assume the entire script block
is gonna be a set of lifecycle hook.
So that's why you see we move
the server setup attribute moved all
the way up into that script block.
So now script has an attribute of
setup which tells the compiler, hey,
we are now in pure setup
lifecycle hook function.
And so what does that mean?
That means we can get rid of an export
default object because we're gonna do some
compiler optimizations that we can assume
based on the fact that we're only working
in script setup.
Then on top of that because we can now
do some basically view can do some magic
as far as detecting what's being
used in the template and what not,
we can actually get rid of
the return object entirely.
And so at the end of the day,
this code works exactly the same as
everything else that you saw earlier.
Okay, so let's go ahead and
see that in action, shall we?
So what we're gonna do is we're going to
take the restaurant page that we've been
working with, and we're gonna trim it
down into the script setup format.
So first thing first,
we're gonna add the setup attribute here.
And what you notice that immediately is
that basically it starts to say, hey,
a lot of these things you're talking
about, they're not being used.
So for example,
we can get rid of this defineComponent.
So that can just get deleted.
So let me go ahead on the bottom,
cuz now the whole thing is a script setup,
we don't have the options API anymore.
So this helper method goes away and then
because the components are automatically
being registered on import, we don't
need to manually register them either.
So those are going bye, bye, and
then here we don't need to set up here.
Why?
Because well,
we already have the setup attribute being
defined up here in the script block.
Then, if I scroll all the way down,
there's the other one.
And then, finally, we can delete all
this return stuff, and then that's it.
Do you not have your script set a block?
And everything still leverages view
of the way you want it to, but
it's basically more of that
vanilla JavaScript land and
then sprinkling helper
methods where it makes sense.
And so now that I've done that and
showing you how that works,
we're gonna have you
have a quick try at that.
So given that this is mainly just
kinda like a refactoring exercise,
we're just gonna give it five minutes
just for people to practice doing this.
And so, let me go ahead and
actually set this up real quick.
Okay, so, now if you check
out the four exercise branch,
that will let you go ahead.
And, like we said, on your dishes page,
you're gonna do the same exact thing,
where we're gonna strip away,
all the boilerplate, and
get you down into that script setup blog.
So hopefully that was mostly an effort
in shipping data components.
So we're just gonna do
this real quick together.
So, once again, first thing do we
wanna use the script setup block,
add the setup attribute.
Then we can go ahead and
delete this export line,
we can delete the components line.
We don't need setup anymore,
I'll deal with that in a little bit.
We don't need any of this return block,
we don't need any of this at the bottom.
I think we save.
We're mostly there,
just need to eliminate this and that's it.
Now you have your script setup block,
and it looks great.
And so going forward for
the rest of this workshop we're gonna base
to use the script set up block syntax.
And so now you've seen that journey,
and so
hopefully everyone can follow
along from this point on.